h1. Contributing

Please take a quick look at this document before to make contribution process easier for all parties involved.

h2. License

"GNU General Public License, version 2":https://github.com/gocom/rah_flat/blob/master/LICENSE. By contributing code, you agree to license your additions under the GPLv2 license.

h2. Configure git

For convenience your committer, git user, should be linked to your GitHub account:

bc. $ git config --global user.name "John Doe"
$ git config --global user.email john.doe@example.com

Make sure to use an email address that is linked to your GitHub account. It can be a throwaway address or you can use GitHub's email protection features. We don't want your emails, but this is to make sure we know who did what. All commits nicely link to their author, instead of them coming from foobar@invalid.tld.

h2. Dependencies

Dependencies are managed using "Composer":http://getcomposer.org. After you have cloned the repository, run composer install:

bc. $ composer install

And update before testing and committing:

bc. $ composer update

h2. Coding standard

The project follows the "PSR-0":https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-0.md and "PSR-2":https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide-meta.md standards with PHP 5.2 style namespacing. You can use PHP_CodeSniffer to make sure your additions follow them too:

bc. $ ./vendor/bin/phpcs --standard=phpcs.xml src

h2. Versioning

"Semantic Versioning":http://semver.org/ and major.minor.path format.
